---
layout: post
title: 2016 : In review
date: 2016-12-28 22:10
tags:
category:
---

It's almost the end of the year, so I thought I would take a look back and see what I accomplished this year and set some goals for 2017. This is the first time I'm posting something like this publicly hoping this will give me some motivation to achieve more in the coming year. Let's see how it works out (:

So, I'm going to look at it from 2 different angles: professional life and personal life. First up, professional life.

-   In the beginning of the year I got a new job and moved to Bangalore to work for [Pothi.com](https://pothi.com). It's been amazing so far. Also, this is my first time staying away from home. But more on that later.
-   I dabbled in some cool new technologies this year. Got comfortable with ES6 and the whole React ecosystem. In fact I'm using them at work now. Learned Golang, Rust and Elixir. But I definitely need more practice. 
-   I did contribute to few opensource projects like [Hyper](https://github.com/python-hyper/hyper-h2), github3py, substance, pydocx etc, but not as much I would have liked. I would surely like to do better next year.
-   Totally failed to regularly post to my blog.
-   Sadly couldn't attend any tech conferences this year. Not even Pycon ):

That's all for my professional life in 2016. Now on to my personal life this year.

-   As I said earlier, this is my first time away from home. Bangalore is a pretty cool place. The weather is a hell lot better than that back home. But yes, I do miss home time to time.
-   This year, I lost more friends than I made. I guess that's expected when you move out of your home town and out of college. Thankfully, I still have a core group of friends whom I love and who are in constant touch. Hopefully, that won't change, ever. (:
-   I visited a bunch of new places in 2016. Travel-wise, 2016 was better than previous years.
-   One of my goals for 2016 was to read more. But I utterly failed at that. Only finished 3 books: A Thousand Splendid Suns, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child and Freakonomics. I want to do better in 2017.

## Goals for 2017

### Professional Goals

-   Be more regular with opensource contributions.
-   Learn more about system programming. Improve knowledge of operating system and how programming languages work. Work through an OS book.
-   Attend at least one major tech conference. 
-   Regularly update blog.

### Personal Goals

-   Read more. At least one book a month. 
-   Travel to at least 5 new places in 2017.
-   Learn a new language. I did try learning French and German on Duolingo last year. But gave up pretty soon.
-   Learn to drive. Get a license.
-   Finally I want to be happier in 2017. This year, for most parts, I have been really pessimistic and in turn depressed. Next year, I would surely like to focus more on the positives and be a more optimistic person. 

  